

This model is from the article:  
** Analyzing the functional properties of the creatine kinase system with multiscale 'sloppy' modeling. **   
Hettling H, van Beek JH _PLoS Comput Biol._2011 Aug;7(8):e1002130.
[PMEDID](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/PMEDID),  
**Abstract:**   
In this study the function of the two isoforms of creatine kinase (CK; EC
2.7.3.2) in myocardium is investigated. The 'phosphocreatine shuttle'
hypothesis states that mitochondrial and cytosolic CK plays a pivotal role in
the transport of high-energy phosphate (HEP) groups from mitochondria to
myofibrils in contracting muscle. Temporal buffering of changes in ATP and ADP
is another potential role of CK. With a mathematical model, we analyzed energy
transport and damping of high peaks of ATP hydrolysis during the cardiac
cycle. The analysis was based on multiscale data measured at the level of
isolated enzymes, isolated mitochondria and on dynamic response times of
oxidative phosphorylation measured at the whole heart level. Using 'sloppy
modeling' ensemble simulations, we derived confidence intervals for
predictions of the contributions by phosphocreatine (PCr) and ATP to the
transfer of HEP from mitochondria to sites of ATP hydrolysis. Our calculations
indicate that only 15±8% (mean±SD) of transcytosolic energy transport is
carried by PCr, contradicting the PCr shuttle hypothesis. We also predicted
temporal buffering capabilities of the CK isoforms protecting against high
peaks of ATP hydrolysis (3750 µM*s(-1)) in myofibrils. CK inhibition by 98% in
silico leads to an increase in amplitude of mitochondrial ATP synthesis
pulsation from 215±23 to 566±31 µM*s(-1), while amplitudes of oscillations in
cytosolic ADP concentration double from 77±11 to 146±1 µM. Our findings
indicate that CK acts as a large bandwidth high-capacity temporal energy
buffer maintaining cellular ATP homeostasis and reducing oscillations in
mitochondrial metabolism. However, the contribution of CK to the transport of
high-energy phosphate groups appears limited. Mitochondrial CK activity lowers
cytosolic inorganic phosphate levels while cytosolic CK has the opposite
effect.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2012 The BioModels.net Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

